# Active Recall for AWS Notes

## IAM
- What is created by default and should not be used or shared?
- What are users?
- What do groups contain?

- What are policies?
- What is the Least Privilege Principle?

- Why are stronger passwords important?
- 5 things password policies can include

- What is MFA
- What are 3 MFA device options?

- 3 ways of accessing AWS and how each method is protected.

- What do Access Keys consist of?
- 3 Best Practices for Access Keys

- What are IAM roles for services?

- 2 IAM security tools in IAM
<br>


## EC2
- What is EC2?
- 4 use cases

- 7 Sizing and configuration options

- What is User Data?
- What privileges does a User Data script run with?

- Describe the following naming convention used for EC2 instances:
  ``` m5.2xlarge ```

- What are the 7 purchase options for EC2 instances?
<br>

- What are AMIs?

- What do they contain?

- 3 Benefits of AMIs

- 3 Types of AMIs
<br>


## Security Groups
- What are Security Groups?
- What do they control?
- True or False: SGs only use Allow rules.

- Default behaviour for:
  - Inbound traffic
  - Outbound traffic
 - True or False: If incoming traffic is allowed, the response is automatically allowed.

 - 3 things that make up an SG rule.

 - What does referencing other SGs mean?
<br>


## Storage
- What is an EBS Volume?
- True or False: EBS Volumes allow data persistence even after an instance's termination.
- Scope of EBS Volumes
<br>

- What is EFS?
- True or False: An EFS can be used by many EC2 instances at the same time.
- Describe the availability and scalability of an EFS.
<br>

## Scaling and Load Balancers
- What is Scalability?
- What are the two kinds of scaling?
<br>

- What is High Availability?
- How is it achieved in AWS?
- What are the two types of HA?
<br>

- What are Load Balancers?
- 7 Benefits of Load Balancers
- 2 Benefits of using AWS's ELBs
<br>

- What are Health Checks?
- 3 Stages of a Health Check
<br>

- 4 Types of Load Balancers and ideal use case
<br>

- What Layer does an ALB operate at?
- How does it route traffic?
- Where does SSL termination occur?
- Target groups of ALB.
<br>

- What layer does an NLB operate at?
- How does it route traffic?
- What feature of an NLB increases the speed?
<br>

- What is the function of Sticky Sessions?
- Which Load Balancers support Sticky Sessions?
- What is a drawback of Sticky Sessions?
<br>

- What do SSL and TLS stand for? And what is the purpose of SSL/TLS certificates?
- Where are public SSL certificates issued?
- True or False: Certificates have an expiry date and must be renewed.
<br>

True or False:
- LBs use an HTTPS listener on port 443 to accept HTTPS connections.
- A default certificate is not required.
- For multiple domains, extra certificates can be added.
<br>

- What is SNI?
- What is the result of SNI?
- Which AWS load balancers and services support this feature?
<br>

- What is SSL termination?
<br>

- What is Connection Draining/Deregistration Delay?
- What happens to new and existing user requests during Connection Draining?
<br>

## Containers
- What are the 4 container-related services on AWS?
<br>

- What is ECS?
- What is an ECS task?
- How are they defined?
<br>

- What is an ECS Cluster?
<br>

When an ECS Cluster is created, a launch type must be chosen.
- What are the two launch types?
- Who manages infrastructure in the EC2 launch type?
- What program is required to run in the EC2 instances?
- What is the function of this program?

True or False:
- AWS handles starting and stopping instances in the EC2 launch type.
<br>

- Describe the Fargate launch type.
- What is the role of the user and AWS in the Fargate launch type?
<br>

- Describe EC2 Instance Profiles.
- Which launch type(s) does it work with?
- What is the role attached to?
- What uses it?
- How is this IAM role used? 
<br>

- What is the other main IAM role used in ECS?
- Where is it specified?
- Which launch type(s) does it work with?
- What is the role attached to?
- How is this IAM role used?
<br>

- How do the following Load Balancers integrate with ECS?
  - CLBs
  - ALBs
  - NLBs
